For each condition (RB+, RB-, R and B) we have three different folders and different scripts for the synthesis of the material used in the two experimental phases (implicit learning, explicit learning): 

1 Implicit: passive exposure
2 Implicit: Syllable detection task 
3 Explicit: recognition of sequence task.

Below a detailed description of the synthesis of the material of each one of the blocks. Within the scripts corresponding the different conditions (RB+, RB-, R and B) you can find the details on how these characteristics were applied to the specific condition case.

## 1 Implicit: Passive exposure

The exposure audio was synthesized as a unique .wav file of 2min and 50s length. The audio was constructed creating first the single sequences of 12 events (8 syllables and 4 silences) respecting the conditions described in the paper. In the folder xsyll you need to insert the .wav files of the filler x-syllables. In the folder NADs those of the rule syllables (4 syllables as in each language there are 2 rule dependencies) and of the pre-segmented silences you want to insert within the sequence. Open the my_module (+cond_name+languagetype).py file. Run it. Then run the cond_name+languagetype.py script. The output is the synthesized audio and a txt file with the text of the correspondent syllables in order of appearance in the audio output. Both are stored in the output folder.

## 2 Implicit: Syllable detection task 
To allow the tracking of the onset of each target syllable, the material for the syllable detection task was synthetized with each sequence corresponding to a separate .wav file. Each sequence has a duration of 2664 ms. For these .wav files, silence events were directly synthesized within the pydub interface. In the context of when .wav files constituted fine-grained small durations stimuli, the use of pre-segmented .wav silences (as used in the passive exposure phase), was inducing deformations in the duration of the output audio, resulting in the sequence having a smaller duration. Nonetheless, the silences created in Python have a linear diminution when converted into .wav (probably due to sample rate). This diminution is always 14,8 times the desired length in the .wav format, for this reason, the silences created within python pydub are slightly longer than the objective durations (222 and 444 ms). Specific measurements and controls showed that the resulting .wav files matched exactly the desired duration of 2.664s.
To synthesize these sequences, insert in the corresponding folders the x-syllables and the rule syllables (sylls and NAD). You will need to define within the script which will be the  x-syllables targets. First run the mymodule+imp+condition+languagetype.py (eg., mymodule_imp_RB_pl_L1.py) and then run the imp+condition+languagetype.py script. As an output the script stores in the folder named impt+name_of_condition+language_used (e.g., impRB_pl_L1),  128 .wav sequences relative to the 4 different possible target syllables (32 sequences for each target). For this reason, they are stored in alphabetic order, where a. and b. wav files are the sequences in which participants had to detect rule syllables, while the c. and d.  .wav files are the sequences in which participants had to detect the x-syllables. In the name of each .wav file in the folder is also stored the onset, within the sequence, of the target syllable, so that RTs can be later easily calculated.
The script outputs two .csv file. The first one, named as task+ imp+ the condition name + the language used+.csv (e.g., Task_imp_RB_pl_L1.csv ) are found the directories of each sequence .wav file (as in the order described above stored in the actual folder). In the second .csv file named as imp+ the condition name + the language used`+.csv ,( e..g, imp_RB_pl_L1.csv) there is a list of the target syllables with corresponding ranges of where in the other .csv file (with the directories of each sequence.wav file), are found 4 sequences mapping that specific target. These are the .csv files used by Pavlovia to iterate over target trials.

## 3. Explicit: recognition of sequence task
The sequences for Explicit are synthesized in the same manner as those in Implicit. Silences are directly created within the Python pydub interface for the same reasons described above. In the NAD folder the 4 rule syllables and in the xsyll folder the 11 x-syllables .wav files. The output is 24 test sequences (12 rules and 12 rule_violations). Each resulting .wav file is named describing the type of rule (r1 or r2), and the type of structure (s1 or s2), the violations .wav also present the name of the type of violation (dep_viol, cat_viol, time_viol). The script also outputs a .csv file, named as Test+condition_name+language used (e.g., Test_RB+L1.csv), where the different randomized audio directories are stored. This file is used by Pavlovia for allowing the iteration over condition in the experiment.

